.\" Package:       Axiom
.\" File:          KBAWDUMP.1
.\" Summary:       man page for the KBAWDUMP M[UMPS]/GT.M routine
.\" Maintainer:    David Wicksell <dlw@linux.com>
.\" Last Modified: Oct 21, 2012
.\"
.\" Written by David Wicksell <dlw@linux.com>
.\" Copyright © 2011,2012 Fourth Watch Software, LC
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License (AGPL)
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
.\"
.\"
.TH KBAWDUMP 1 "21 Oct 2012" "Version 0.20.3" "Axiom Developer Tools"

.SH NAME
\fBKBAWDUMP\fP - A M[UMPS]/GT.M routine for use with the Axiom package

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mumps -r KBAWDUMP \fPglobal

.B mumps -r KBAWDUMP \fP'global(subscript[,subscript]...)'

.B mumps -r KBAWDUMP \fP'-global(subscript[,subscript]...)'

.B mumps -r GLOBALS^KBAWDUMP

.B mumps -r GLOBALS^KBAWDUMP \fP<first-global>:<last-global>


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B KBAWDUMP
is a M[UMPS]/GT.M routine that will display the contents of a MUMPS global,
with or without subscripts.
.PP
.B Note
that if you specify a subscript(s), you must enclose the global reference in
ticks, or single-quotes ('). This is to ensure that your shell doesn't try to
start a subshell when it sees the parens.
.PP
You are not required to supply the initial ^ of a global reference. You may
optionally preceed the global reference with a '-'. The default behavior of
KBAWDUMP is to display all the data of a referenced subscript and all of its
children. By preceding the global reference with a '-', you can suppress the
output of the children of the global reference. You may also use the wildcard
characters '*' and ':'. Using a '*' at a global reference will display all the
possible data values as well as all the children of that subscript. Using a ':'
at a global reference will display all the possible data values of that
subscript, but not its children. You may only use the '*' wildcard as the last
subscript in the global reference.
.PP
.B GLOBALS^KBAWDUMP
is a M[UMPS]/GT.M routine calling point that will display all of the globals
in a GT.M database. You may also specify a range in this form:
.IP
<first-global>:<last-global>
.PP
It will then display every global in a GT.M database starting with
<first-global> and ending with <last-global>, inclusive.
.PP
If you do not supply a global before the colon, it will start at the first
global in the database. And if you do not supply a global after the colon, it
will end with the last global in the database.
.PP
.B Note
that you must not have any space between the globals and the colon.
.PP
Again, it does not require that you supply the initial ^ of a global reference.

.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
$ mumps -r KBAWDUMP DD
.IP
$ mumps -r KBAWDUMP 'DD(0,1)'
.IP
$ mumps -r GLOBALS^KBAWDUMP
.IP
$ mumps -r GLOBALS^KBAWDUMP DI:TMP
.IP
$ mumps -r GLOBALS^KBAWDUMP DI:
.IP
$ mumps -r GLOBALS^KBAWDUMP :TMP

.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs, but KBAWDUMP has to deal with MUMPS syntax,
so there are more than likely always going to be around 3 bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by David Wicksell <dlw@linux.com>
