.\" Package:       LorikeeM MUMPS Developer Tools
.\" File:          lorikeem.1
.\" Summary:       man page for LorikeeM
.\" Maintainer:    John Willis <jwillis@coherent-logic.com>
.\" Last Modified: 13 May 2013
.\"
.\" Written by John Willis <jwillis@coherent-logic.com>
.\" Copyright © 2013 Coherent Logic Development LLC
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License (AGPL)
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
.\"
.\"
.TH LORIKEEM 1 "13 May 2013" "Version 0.99.3" "LorikeeM MUMPS Developer Tools"

.SH NAME
\fBlorikeem\fP - MUMPS programmer's editor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lorikeem
.BI "[\fIFILE\fP]"

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B LorikeeM
is a GNU Emacs major mode and auxiliary utilities which turn the GNU Emacs 
environment into a MUMPS programmer's editor.

.SH EXAMPLE

LorikeeM is typically run from the command line, specifying the name of the 
routine to edit, as follows:

        $ lorikeem ROUTINE.m

This will open ROUTINE.m in GNU Emacs with the LorikeeM major mode enabled.

.SH GLOBAL LOOKUP

LorikeeM provides a facility for viewing the value of any MUMPS global from
within the editor. For this to work, the KBAWDUMP.m routine (packaged with
the LorikeeM distribution) must be placed in a location where it can be 
accessed by your environment.

To use global lookup, position the cursor over the global you wish to
examine, and perform one of the following actions:

* Press the
.B F6
key on your keyboard

* Type
.B M-x lkm-global-at-point

* Select
.B Examine Global at Cursor
from the LorikeeM menu

To examine a global that is not in the current buffer, perform one of the
following actions:

* Press
.B F7
on your keyboard

* Type 
.B M-x lkm-gtm-global-lookup

* Select
.B Examine Global
from the LorikeeM menu

.B NOTE:
The global lookup feature essentially performs a ZWRITE on the selected
or typed global. This can be a huge time and memory drain, especially
for very large globals, as found in e.g. VistA.

Lookup of a single, specific subscript is planned for a future release.

.SH ROUTINE LOOKUP

This facility allows you to jump from a routine reference to its definition
using a tagfile created by Exuberant CTAGS.

To look up a routine, position your cursor over the routine's entryref, and
do one of the following:

* Select
.B Jump to Routine Defintion
from the LorikeeM menu

* Press the
.B F8 
key on your keyboard

The script
.B mktags
, located in the
.B bin
subdirectory of your home directory, allows you to create a tagfile in the
unique format required by GNU Emacs.

To create the tagfile for all the source directories refernced in your
.B $gtmroutines
environment variable, run
.B mktags -eg
from your ~/bin directory. You will need to run this script each time you
make a change to your MUMPS routines.

For more advanced usage of
.B mktags
, refer to
.B mktags(1)
 
.SH SYMBOL COMPLETION

LorikeeM provides symbol and keyword completion. To use it, position your
cursor over the incomplete keyword and press the
.B F5
key or type
.B M-x lkm-complete-symbol

LorikeeM will expand the short form of the MUMPS command at the cursor position
to its long form, complete the intrinsic function's name at the cursor position,
or provide you with a list of possible completions from which you can select
the desired command or intrinsic function.

.SH ROUTINE COMPILATION

LorikeeM allows you to compile the currently-loaded routine. To do this, perform
one of the following actions:

* Press the 
.B F9
key on your keyboard

* Select 
.B Compile Current Buffer
from the LorikeeM menu

.SH API TEMPLATES

LorikeeM integrates YASnippet functionality to provide "IntelliSense"-style parameter
completion for all of the MUMPS 1995 intrinsic functions and part of the VistA API.

API templates are triggered by typing the opening paren of the function's actuallist.
Pressing the
.B TAB
or
.B SHIFT-TAB
keys will navigate forward and reverse, respectively, through the parameters, highlighting the
parameter names so they will be replaced when you begin typing. Some parameters will prompt
you with a menu of options from which you can choose.

.B NOTE:
Current VistA API support is limited to the Fileman Database Server (DBS) API.

The files supporting these APIs are located at 
.B ~/.emacs.d/plugins/yasnippet/snippets/mumps-mode

.SH BUGS

* Syntax coloring for comments sometimes breaks when the comment includes MUMPS commands or intrinsic functions

* Most of the functionality of 
.B KBAWDUMP(1) 
is not exposed by LorikeeM

* The API templates provided only support the uppercase versions of intrinsic functions.

* LorikeeM only supports FIS GT.M currently. Support for InterSystems Cache', MUMPSV1, and FreeM is
planned for the 1.0 release.

Before a 1.0 release will be considered, the above bugs must be fixed.

.SH AUTHOR

Written by John Willis <jwillis@coherent-logic.com>

Inspired by David Wicksell's 
.B AxioM Developer Tools 
, which provides similar functionality for Bram Moolenar's
.B vim
editor.

Includes functionality from the
.B YASnippet
templating library for Emacs

Also inspired by John May's mumps-mode as found at http://www.mombu.com/programming/mumps/t-emacs-mumps-mode-3143202.html

.SH SEE ALSO
axiom(1), emacs(1), GNU Emacs texinfo documentation, http://www.coherent-logic.com/lorikeem
