.\" Package:       Axiom
.\" File:          mktags.1
.\" Summary:       man page for the mktags shell script
.\" Maintainer:    David Wicksell <dlw@linux.com>
.\" Last Modified: Oct 20, 2012
.\"
.\" Written by David Wicksell <dlw@linux.com>
.\" Copyright © 2011,2012 Fourth Watch Software, LC
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License (AGPL)
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
.\"
.\"
.TH MKTAGS 1 "20 Oct 2012" "Version 0.20.3" "Axiom Developer Tools"

.SH NAME
\fBmktags\fP - A script to build a tags file for use with the Axiom package

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktags
.BI "[-elqv] [-d \fIDIRECTORY\fP | \fIFILE\fP]+"

.B mktags
.BI "[-elqv] -g"

.B mktags
.BI -h

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mktags
is a shell script that will create a tags file containing MUMPS labels or
entryrefs for use with the Axiom package.
.PP
Normally you would call it via cron once or more daily to keep your tags file
up to date.

.SH OPTIONS
The following command line flags are optional. At least -g, or a directory or
list of directories, with or without, a file or list of files, is required.
.IP -d
Supply a directory name after this option, and mktags will recursively search
it and create a tags file, called MTAGS, in the current working directory.
You can supply as many -d flags as you want, but can only give each one the
name of one directory.
.IP -e
Run in Emacs mode, building a tags file called MTAGS or ~/.MTAGS in Emacs
format.
.IP -h
Display a helpful usage message and exit.
.IP -g
Parse the $gtmroutines environment variable, going through the specified
directories, building a tags file called ~/.mtags or MTAGS.
.IP -l
Turn on logging. Nothing is logged unless this flag is used. It will log to
the file ~/log/mktags.log. If it is an error message, and not just a notice,
it will also log to the system log file. E.g.

        /var/log/messages or /var/log/syslog
.IP -q
Run in quiet mode. This will ensure that no notice or error messages are ever
written out to the screen. It works independently of the -l and -v options.
.IP -v
Run in verbose mode. This will turn on a very verbose logging of what the tag
building command, ctags, is doing. It works independently of the -l and -q
options.

.SH EXAMPLE
Normally mktags is run from the command line, on each directory listed in the
$gtmroutines environment variable. E.g.

        $ mktags -g

If you want, you can run it from cron by adding it to your crontab file. Keep
in mind that you will either need to use the full path to mktags, or you will
need to define $PATH to include the ~/bin/ directory where mktags is installed,
in your crontab file. If you are using the -g option, you will need to make
sure to source the file that builds the $gtmroutines environment variable, in
your crontab entry, since the -g option requires that it be defined. Running
mktags from cron could be done to keep your tags file up-to-date. Then it will
keep up with added, removed, or modified MUMPS routines. Example crontab entry:

        SHELL=/bin/bash
        PATH=~/bin:/usr/bin:/bin
        00 20 * * * . set_env && mktags -gl
.SH EXIT CODES
0   Success

1   ctags is not installed

2   exuberant-ctags is not installed

3   -g option being used without $gtmroutines being defined

4   Invalid option

5   Not enough arguments supplied

6   mktags is already running

7   Bad error code (Should never happen)

127 User interrupted program execution: E.g. CTRL-C/SIGINT

.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by David Wicksell <dlw@linux.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
ctags(1), ctags-exuberant(1), crontab(5), crontab(1), cron(8)
